all right we are recording hello
everybody and welcome to VIP fest Gorham
limitations Wheatley sink jump the edit
note down in the chat they did change
prepared to change their default
permissions so the link in the github
repo is read-only for security purposes
so go ahead and add your updates we're
gonna select a note taker and Bochco one
of my note-taker for today alright so
starting with high priority initiatives
of command ship releases go ipfs oh da
six had launched dean pulled the trigger
on a friday yeah that is how the release
notes are linked in their Adeem any
thing worse note you want to mention I
mean yeah look at the release notes
there's a bunch of stuff this is a lot
of release has work that is like
preparing us for future things that will
be really nice whether it's like quick
support or base 36 things that we've
been you know are not are not
necessarily groundbreaking by themselves
but are really useful for us going
forward click in particular it's gonna
be really nice for both performance for
both lookup speed performance but also
for udp-based hole punching when we get
a chance to Plymouth us like that's
awesome and base 36 will allow us to do
elliptic curve keys by defaults which
will then allow us to do more
sophisticated provider records which
will then cut down on the number of
provides you have to do to the DHT and
allow you to have sort of more
sophisticated finding of data so some
things to watch out for
excellent any other upcoming shipped
items nope alright next is content
routing we can effectively close this
with six release the team's gonna be
working on transitioning so we're gonna
be going through our q3 priorities this
week and then we'll create some new
initiatives based on that I'm to go over
in next week's meeting next up subdomain
gateway Lydell yep so I hope to finish
before this called but they did not so
expect the later this week the PR in
which we try to find a way to work with
in TLS I'll I'm replacing it on top of
0.6 and I'm decreasing the scope I
talked with Stephan and we overall
figured out that all the magic should
not be present in the initial version so
I'm simplifying everything we won't be
automatically replacing the root we will
be simply trying it will be checking if
the CID in the text if text
representation of a CID fits in the dns
label if it does not we will try base 46
if that does not work we'll simply
return error and that would be like
small but significant improvement and a
it will solve like it will solve the
problem of IP NS with elliptic curve
keys and we won't introduce any like
magic that would surprise people we can
always decide to do that in a separate
PRF I feel for now
that's probably the safest way given the
reorg for and people moving between
teams but will be also like much easier
to review i think that's its own mind
awesome
next up bit swap updates we have no Dirk
so no updates today as we move on stream
con that base shocking I also I think we
are
Reba less read put minimum amount of
work done
no fish ball update on dog referred past
week key is working on some IP LD things
at the moment and accept Russ
I guess security person there allow me
to unmute there we go yeah so UNIX FS
exporting is landed and done and the
milestone report for the grant funding
is submitted and merged so you're
welcome to look at that I link to those
in the notes we have a blog post coming
out soon that we're hoping to get on the
ipfs blog as well as this week in rust
that goes through sort of our
implementation of unix FS in technical
detail but I think it'll be pretty
interesting for folks and you know if
you look at the notes they're still
soliciting ideas for you know future
work on on rust ipfs independently we're
probably going to move towards looking
at the persistent story and sort of what
sort of database solutions are available
in the rust ecosystem to use there so
we'll be doing benchmarking and things
like that on both regular regular old
hard drives and things like SD cards for
raspberry PI's and stuff like that
so drinking more holistic approach to
you know where things are stored and how
things are retrieved and stuff like that
and performance will be the focus there
that's about it from us awesome
any questions for mark all right next up
a little bit rendezvous as well it's
still blocked and my current work on
design P Records which is a dependency
for this suite we should probably add a
item in there for their sign peer
records yeah all right other initiatives
done with all the mains so stop jumping
alright UNIX FS one five
I've no updates how about migration of
multi hash keys test with this kind of
stuff
measure once cut eight times that's how
I like to do it all right
pinning system revamp all right
shared ipfs node so my work on the pull
request
I consider done so right now I'm
requesting for the review to see what I
get back and try to address us in still
awaiting on some changes in the
dependencies to be propagated so however
would be welcome I'm also having some
issues with testing on electron and I do
not know if that's related to my changes
or not but I could use some help there
too as in said I think it's done any
questions for Gazala
knew all right that is it for the
updates design review proposals pinning
service integration it's mine
yeah so long story short we the GUI team
will be working in Q free on introducing
pinning service integration within ipfs
web UI and that means it will be working
out of the box in IPS desktop also in
the web UI interface when you load it in
a web browser however there are some
gaps or like there's like a space of
unknown that we would like to clarify
before we move
full-speed ahead so I created a document
link is in the notes
I created a document which documents all
the needs this integration introduces
and how well it shows the changes that
will be introduced and then what needs
to happen on the backend to come out
those changes so would be awesome if
someone namely at least someone from NGO
activist ideally from JSF EFS as well
just to have more eyes on it go through
that document comment on proposed
solutions nearly in every place where we
have some need I propose like two
scenarios one is delegating more work to
go ipfs second one is doing more stuff
in userland in javascript so we would
appreciate some feedback on that how
much stuff could happen in go back DFS
how much stuff realistically could
happen in q3 in go FS
so I believe we need to look at the
design review or like a call to clarify
the scope so we can plan this forward so
I've pre added some folks to the list
but if you want to be on that call add
yourself and I'll try to show you
something this week okay questions
provide it's more of just a statement
that I'm out for most of this week but
we love to talk about this behind like
most of the week like is this like the
last hour no Tuesday Thursday but
Wednesday is taken up by like all-day
meeting planning stuff okay
Can I grab you later
yeah okay okay fine I'll figure it out
yeah all right
blockers asks waiting on some protons my
so not there's some changes in the
protons libraries that I'm not sure if
it's accepted or still waiting on some
things to be done some clearance there
would be helpful so I can get it further
another one is so there are a lot of
intermediate failures in Genesis ipfs
that makes life really hard because I
don't know what our regressions versus
what are known failures I would like to
want you to try to figure out maybe
different strategy or keeping the tests
while keeping the trade green there are
a few things that Mozilla has been
doesn't have to be sure the moment it's
really hard for me to tell where things
are expected to fail versus where is
there not
turn us from approaching the test any
few rebase against muster today okay I
think that's great but I think it
generally it will be good to have some
sort of system where we can know like
for example what Mozilla was doing if
there was a known intermediate test it
would get marked and then see I would
pick it up and show you in lines that
you can ignore this because that each
mediately fails otherwise it's gonna it
might be fixed now but I imagine over
times there will be more and more things
happening like this so I think something
more fundamental where things like that
could be flood would be helpful I alex i
didn't quite go that first piece I
bought the problems I'm afraid your
voice was gonna little low on land but
it could also take it in check it is on
his list we'll get to it soon Thanks all
right any questions nothing listed
moving on parking lot alex is out on
Friday are there that is it for the
updates does anybody have anything else
they want to cover ask questions I just
had like a thought so every so often run
into issues with basically trying to use
our sink without amount of limitation
and how things aren't going to work
because our sink relies on like touching
the files in your file system and so if
you use the file store then they get
locked and so you can't update them and
if you don't have or trust your mount
implementation then you can't really use
that to do the updates either
I'm wondering if there is any like if
there's any interest in seeing if we can
sort of import and export data from the
file store easily by like returning hit
like locking control and then returning
control to the user right because part
of the reason if you add like a
humongous amount of data like if s that
it takes a long time is because it has
to just copy it like it's literally just
hard drive right speed and the file
store gets around this because you just
leave the data as it is and then you
just write the sort of the intermediate
leaf nodes we could allow that like we
could allow like import with like
cutting like move all the data instead
of import with copy I don't know if I
see I see Internet Archive had some use
case for that wild I'm not sure if
that's still relevant for example yeah
it's just like I guess I'm not sure like
what the current like users of the file
store are using things for like I don't
know what their I don't know what their
current plan is because things are are
mostly like you know read-only I think
like Internet Archive actually used URL
store I'm not sure who's using files or
something to investigate
all right anything else once twice sold
all right everybody you can have five
minutes back we will see you all next
week bye everybody
how do you check it slug